---
lang: en
ecip: 1062
title: Submit Block RPC
author: Zachary Belford, zachary.b@etclabs.org
discussions-to: Community Discord #ecips
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2019-06-26
---

### Abstract

Add an RPC method to submit a new block, instead of having to use submitWork.

### Motivation

At the moment, there is no high level facility through which an external-to-geth system can submit a newly mined block. Mining pools rely on submitWork, which implies that the provider of the submitted work is not able to, at the time of submission, provide an address to receive the payout.

By adding a JSON-RPC method that accepts a fully formed new block to submit instead of having to use submitWork, we will drastically simplify the process and software required to build a highly scalable mining pool.

In summary, I would like to be able to submitWork, but have the address used be one other than the etherbase of the node the work is being submitted by.

### Specification

The submit block method should accept a block as its parameter.
The submitted block is validated and added to the blockchain.
If the block is has been accepted into the chain, the result will be true and false otherwise.
Below is the method specified using OpenRPC spec.

```json
{
  "openrpc": "1.1.8",
  "info": {
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "title": "Example submitBlock"
  },
  "methods": [
    {
      "name": "eth_submitBlock",
      "summary": "Submit a new block proposal",
      "description": "Given a new block, it will validate the block, and broadcast it to connected peers.",
      "params": [
        { "$ref": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/etclabscore/ethereum-json-rpc-specification/master/openrpc.json#/components/contentDescriptors/Block" }
      ],
      "result": {
        "name": "isBlockAccepted",
        "schema": {
          "type": "boolean"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Rationale

This removes the dependency for miners to have a geth node with accounts that need to be unlocked. Miners would be able to more easily isolate their private keys from the world, yeilding better security potential.

### Implementation

I think it's pretty straight forward. Looking at the above specification, we would be adding an `eth_submitBlock` RPC method. It's similar to `eth_submitWork`, except with fewer steps before broadcasting the block. 

### References

Ethereum's `eth/[63|64|65]` Wire Protocol uses a message [`NewBlock (0x07)`](https://github.com/ethereum/devp2p/blob/master/caps/eth.md#newblock-0x07), which is functionally identical to the proposed method. The practical differences, in this case, are limited to respective transport and encoding.
